---
layout: post
title: How You Can Take Advantage of Your Equity
date: 2022-04-12 00:00:00
tags:
excerpt: Homeowners, what options do you have for reinvesting your equity?
enclosure:
pullquote: As a homeowner, you have many options for repurposing your home equity.
enclosure_type: video/mp4
enclosure_time:
use_youtube_image: true
youtube_alternate_image: /uploads/equity-options-yt.jpg
youtube_code: o6bHBzpeYnI
---
{% include youtube.html %}

{% include excerpt.html %}

Recently, I sent out an email where I discussed how the prices of real estate are going up and how, if you’re a homeowner, the wealth stored in your house has grown. But what other purpose does that equity have beyond just encapsulating wealth? Today I’ll talk about some of the ways you can take advantage of the rising equity in your home.

For one, you could use your equity to downsize to a smaller home, thereby decreasing your debt. You could even upsize to a larger home.&nbsp;

{% include pullquote.html %}

You could also use it to buy a second or vacation home. If you’ve always wanted to spend more time in a particular destination spot, the money that’s just sitting in your current home can be used to make that dream a reality. Alternatively, **you can also reinvest your equity in a rental property as an opportunity to generate some income.** Otherwise, you could do a cash-out refinance, get a home equity loan, or set up a home equity line of credit to accomplish a number of ends.

As a homeowner, you have many options for repurposing your equity. If you have any questions about the ways you could use the money generated by your property in this rising market, or if you’re in search of rental properties to invest in, don’t hesitate to reach out to us by phone or email. We’d love to help you.
