---
layout: post
title: Documents for Selling a Home Made Simple
date: 2023-12-12 05:00:00
excerpt:
enclosure:
pullquote:
enclosure_type: video/mp4
enclosure_time:
use_youtube_image: false
youtube_alternate_image: /uploads/jorge-gonzalez-ss-template-3.jpg
youtube_code:
---
Are you looking to sell a home? At times, it may seem like you are already adrift on an endless sea of paperwork. So many documents are required during the sale of a home that it can be confusing and worrisome. It’s easy to become overwhelmed, which is why I’ve put together this brief primer to help you navigate the process. This isn’t an exhaustive list of all the documents that will be needed during a sale, but it should help you get the ball rolling.

**1\. Pre-listing paperwork.** Don’t let this phase stop you from calling me to make an appointment to discuss the sale of your property. That being said, it would be helpful if you could gather all of the documentation related to your our ownership of the property and any changes you’ve made. This might include things like the title or deed, the most recent mortgage statement, copy of your survey and title insurance policy, invoices and other documents for any major home improvements, warranties and other information regarding your appliances, and any records relating to an HOA or other agreements. Be sure to connect with a trusted, local real estate agent like me to help you gather these documents.

**2\. Listing paperwork.** This one is a lot easier for the homeowner. This will include things like a disclosure paperwork, and a listing agreement. Once you list the property you will need to prepare a seller’s disclosure, which is pretty much required by a seller, and your Realtor will provide the document that you’ll need for the disclosure. Be sure to work closely with your agent to make sure that you have all of the necessary documents.

**3\. The offer and closing paperwork.** This is another step in the process that is heavy on documentation. Much of it will be included in the prior steps, but you’ll also need new things like the purchase contract, appraisals, and inspections. You’ll already have some of this paperwork, you’ll receive some of it during the selling process, and other parts will be generated by your real estate agent and the mortgage companies. The most important things you’ll want to have on hand during this process are your identification and the deed to the home.

As I said before, this is not a complete list of the paperwork you’ll need. Plus, your specific city, county, and state might have different requirements. If you’re feeling overwhelmed, remember that this is why you need a trusted, local real estate agent like me on your side. We’re experts in the buying and selling process, and we can help you identify, find, generate, or apply for all of the necessary documents that you will need for your specific sale.

If you’re getting ready to sail the sea of paperwork required for a successful home sale, reach out to me. Call or email me anytime, as I am ready and waiting to help you with all of your real estate needs.